Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Java Development Kit (JDK) is a bundle of software components that is used to develop Java based applications.
JDK includes the JRE, set of API classes, Java compiler, Webstart and additional files needed to write Java applets and applications.

What is IDE?
Integrated Development Environment. A software suite that consolidates the basic tools developers need to write and test software.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, Intellij (what I am using now), Netbeans

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A Java program is written using either a Text Editor like Textpad or an IDE like Eclipse and is saved as a .java file. (Program.java)
The .java file is then compiled using Java compiler and a .class file is obtained from it. (Program.class)
The .class file is now portable and can be used to run this Java program in any platform.
Class file (Program.class) is interpreted by the JVM installed on a particular platform. JVM is part of the JRE software.

what is class?
A class is nothing but a blueprint or a template for creating different objects which defines its properties and behaviors.
Java class objects exhibit the properties and behaviors defined by its class. A class can contain fields and methods to describe
the behavior of an object.

What is object?
Object − Objects have states and behaviors. Example: A dog has states - color, name, breed as well as behaviors –
wagging the tail, barking, eating. An object is an instance of a class. Class − A class can be defined as a template/blueprint
that describes the behavior/state that the object of its type support.

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method (public static void main)

Why main is static?
This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made. Since it is static it can be directly
invoked via the class. Similarly, we use static sometime for user defined methods so that we need not to make objects.
void indicates that the main() method being declared does not return a value.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
In interface no methods are implemented. In abstract class, some methods are implemented and others are not.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No, you have to create another class that extends or implements the interface or abstract class. After you have defined
all of the methods, you are able to make an instance of that class.

what is Access Specifier?
Public, private, protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object oriented programming. Programming where you create instances of classes and then use their methods and variables
to write computer code.
The basic unit of OOP is a class, which encapsulates both the static properties and dynamic operations within a "box",
and specifies the public interface for using these boxes. Since classes are well-encapsulated, it is easier to reuse
these classes. In other words, OOP combines the data structures and algorithms of a software entity inside the same box.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
In computer programming, an application programming interface (API) is a set of subroutine definitions, protocols,
and tools for building application software. A good API makes it easier to develop a computer program by providing
all the building blocks, which are then put together by the programmer.

Does java support multiple inheritance?
Never. You can only inherit one class in Java, unlike in C++ where you can inherit multiple classes.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
When you have more than one method with different signatures. The Java Compiler knows which method to call based on what
variables are passed to it.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
When a class inherits another class, it can use the method of that other class. However, if you want to make your own
method instead of use the one that was inherited, you have that option, and simply write your own. This is called
overriding the previous method.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Sometimes a class in Java throws an exception, and you have to catch the exception in your code by using the Try Catch
syntax.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
The static keyword in Java means that the variable or function is shared between all instances of that class as it
belongs to the type, not the actual objects themselves. So if you have a variable: private static int i = 0; and you
increment it ( i++ ) in one instance, the change will be reflected in all instances.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Once a final variable has been assigned, it always contains the same value. If a final variable holds a reference to
an object, then the state of the object may be changed by operations on the object, but the variable will always refer
 to the same object.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is
used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
It initializes the instance.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Refers to the local variable of the class.

What is "super" keyword in java?
When you want to refer to the class that the current class inherited from.

What is JVM stand for ?
A Java virtual machine (JVM) is an abstract computing machine that enables a computer to run a Java program.
There are three notions of the JVM: specification, implementation, and instance. The specification is a document
that formally describes what is required of a JVM implementation.

What version of java are you using?
Java 8

What is JAR stand for ?
A JAR (Java Archive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata
and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file to distribute application software or libraries on the Java platform.

What is compile time and run time?
The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation process
is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running,
it is called runtime.

What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
The heap is created on virtual machine start-up. Heap storage for objects is reclaimed by an automatic storage
management system (known as a garbage collector); objects are never explicitly deallocated.

How java manage it's memory?
Java has a 'trash collector' that deletes variables that are no longer being used by the program.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A String is the most basic of the 3. StringBuffer allows you to manipulate the string using method calls.
StringBuilder allows you to build a string that you know you are going to continue adding more data to.
