Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
To organize our data in a structured way that we can access later.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?


what is an Array?
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type. The length of an array is
established when the array is created. After creation, its length is fixed.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Difference between array and arraylist in java include eight points namely Resizable, Performance, Traversal ,Primitives
, Length , Type-Safety, Adding elements , Multi-dimensional.

what is LinkedList?
a linked list is a linear collection of data elements, called nodes, each pointing to the next node by means of a
pointer. It is a data structure consisting of a group of nodes which together represent a sequence.

what is queue?
It represents an ordered list of objects just like a List , but its intended use is slightly different.
A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
A stack is a data structure that allows data to be inserted (a 'push' operation), and removed (a 'pop' operation).
Many stacks also support a read ahead (a 'peek' operation), which reads data without removing it.
A stack is a LIFO-queue, meaning that the last data to be inserted will be the first data to be removed.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
First In First Out and Last In First Out.

what is the order of complexity?
Big O notation is that we are measuring the time and space complexity of an algorithm in terms of the growth of input size n.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
O(n)

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
O(n)

what is tree in data structure?
trees are made up of nodes. A common kind of tree is a binary tree, in which each node contains a reference to two
other nodes (possibly null).

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is an object consisting of a vertex set and an edge set.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized whereas hashmap is not. 2)Another difference is that iterator in the HashMap is fail-safe
while the enumerator for the Hashtable isn't. If you change the map while iterating, you'll know.
HashMap permits null values in it, while Hashtable doesn't.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
When you try to access an element of an array that doesn't exit. Example: access 11th element of an array that is 10
elements long.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?


What is difference between an array and a linked list?
In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list,
location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array, no pointers are used
like linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer.

What is DFS and BFS?
In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list,
location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array, no pointers are used
like linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer.

What is Recursion?
A method calling itself.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A way to measure how long a certain sort takes to complete.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
